.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!--
  Please note that this template is not optional.
  Please fill out _ALL_ fields, or your issue may be closed as "invalid."
  Please do not delete this template.
  Please ask questions on StackOverflow or Gitter (https://gitter.im/webpack/webpack).
  General questions, how-to questions, and support requests will be closed.
-->

- Operating System:
- Node Version:
- NPM Version:
- webpack Version:
- webpack-dev-server Version:
- Browser:

<!--
  Please place an x, no spaces, in all [ ] that apply
  Please note that we are NOT accepting FEATURE requests at this time.
-->

- [ ] This is a **bug**
- [ ] This is a **modification** request

### Code

<!--
  If you have a large amount of code to share which demonstrates the problem
  you're experiencing, or your webpack config is very large, please provide a link
  to your repository rather than pasting code. We'd also encourage you to use a
  Github Gist link instead of pasting code. Otherwise, please paste relevant
  short snippets below.

  For bugs, please do consider providing a link to a stripped-down, bare-bones
  repo that can reproduce the problem you're experiencing. Many times, bugs
  aren't actual bugs, but rather specific issues with loaders, plugins, or
  an environment/OS. Problems with complicated or large applications will almost
  always require this to be triaged.
-->

```js
// webpack.config.js
```

```js
// additional code, remove if not needed.
```

### Expected Behavior

### Actual Behavior

### For Bugs; How can we reproduce the behavior?

<!-- See https://stackoverflow.com/help/minimal-reproducible-example for information on how to create good reproductions -->

### For Features; What is the motivation and/or use-case for the feature?

Commit message:

chore: ask for webpack-cli version in issue template (#3305)
* chore: ask for webpack-cli version in issue template

* chore: update ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!--
  Please note that this template is not optional.
  Please fill out _ALL_ fields, or your issue may be closed as "invalid."
  Please do not delete this template.
  Please ask questions on StackOverflow or Gitter (https://gitter.im/webpack/webpack).
  General questions, how-to questions, and support requests will be closed.
-->

<!--
  Please place an x, no spaces, in all [ ] that apply
  Please note that we are NOT accepting FEATURE requests at this time.
-->

- [ ] This is a **bug**
- [ ] This is a **modification** request

### Code

<!--
  If you have a large amount of code to share which demonstrates the problem
  you're experiencing, or your webpack config is very large, please provide a link
  to your repository rather than pasting code. We'd also encourage you to use a
  Github Gist link instead of pasting code. Otherwise, please paste relevant
  short snippets below.

  For bugs, please do consider providing a link to a stripped-down, bare-bones
  repo that can reproduce the problem you're experiencing. Many times, bugs
  aren't actual bugs, but rather specific issues with loaders, plugins, or
  an environment/OS. Problems with complicated or large applications will almost
  always require this to be triaged.
-->

```js
// webpack.config.js
```

```js
// additional code, remove if not needed.
```

### Please paste the results of `webpack-cli info` here, and mention other relevant information

### Expected Behavior

### Actual Behavior

### For Bugs; How can we reproduce the behavior?

<!-- See https://stackoverflow.com/help/minimal-reproducible-example for information on how to create good reproductions -->

### For Features; What is the motivation and/or use-case for the feature?
